Welcome back everybody.
Today we're going to be working on balancing a trainset and featuring Schelling both of which are important
for our current model building process.
So we're balancing the trade and say over the years in general.
Well let's explore the why.
Call it trainset and see what we find.
If we look at why trade which is a common question and we do it is simple value counts.
We're going to see the distribution for it.
Great.
So there is around talk hey we were trying to go 0 and then run a almost 9000 Chinese was one since
it's very spread out.
There's nothing we do here but we're going to still explore other more by realizing what will happen
if we push for Martin was only in the 60s.
So what are we talking about.
Let's think about assume our motto is only giving us a little knowledge is still useful and a good lot
of the company but it's not some 80 percent accuracy model it's only 60 percent.
OK.
So if there is 60 percent of zeros in the response variable and say there is 40 percent more than once
and the manone chooses all of them to be zero aka a completely biased model that does not work at all.
Selects everything it goes to zero.
The accuracy is still going to be at the 60 percent mark because its going to be as in the correction.
So don't count for problems like this in which the accuracy may be a little deceiving and or he is in
which the model may be completely biased and still he was an accuracy of 50 percent.
We balance between say that as we balance the amount of zeros and ones that the train set has in response
variable.
That way we can guarantee the one in a list for accuracy within our model is as a result of our model
itself and not a random permutation on how many zeros ones are in the response very often trains.
So this will begin this far by splitting the exit into responsive values and in saying so cost index
is going to be listen to wide training which is our response variable and all of the elements where
the values are equal to 1 8 positive responses and we want to select the index from those which is just
a right in the last five years.
We're not in the balance we're getting in this but as far as we're going to do the same from the next
we're going to do next in this because exactly this but we're waiting to see.
So it's replaces action.
So what have we accomplished so far.
We just laid the positive and negative values for the response variable into its own indexes.
Now we're going to do.
And it feels so good.
The land of the positive for just how many positive volumes there were in the set is greater than the
length of the negative which is Geo's negative index.
Then what we're going to do is we're going to call a higher variable.
We're going to call this higher incidence the cost to the positive because potteries higher based on
these costs and of course then the lower variable is going to be okay.
Okay.
So follow along a little bit more else if that's not the case we're going to do the opposite.
Meaning that higher is going to be a negative value and lower it's going to be the positive.
So we just simply copy is and change the top for lower and the bottom for higher tax on somebody.
So all these what it's accomplishing is selecting which of them are the higher list and which of them
are the smallest list.
Now we're going to use Rundell now.
And first I'm setting a C and why am I saying this because we want to use a random function in the next
lines and I want to be able to be duplicating something to see and see what we do next is the meat of
the set which is set in higher Brentham the choice higher again and slice off land of lower.
So what this accomplishes is that it's going to randomly select the index higher of size length of lower
meaning that we're going to see get hired into a subset that is as big as the lower.
So we're pretty much making higher because the lower by chopping some of the items a randomly select
some of those values now because these resoled returns in a way we're going to make lower into an array
as well.
This is just for consistency not by as array.
Excellent.
And it's going to be lower making both the same types.
And finally we're going to subsetting the trainset by the values that we have selected.
So if we select a lot these finds the items by row index.
So we can select the new indexes.
Now then your indexes are going to be the combination of higher and lower.
So you actually create a variable to possibly holer.
So you're in the US right here going to be the concatenation and the concatenates lower and higher
and higher.
And all of this is accomplishing is that we're combining the higher and lower in this model which have
the same size.
So now we see here lot that new access and all that hops.
So we are subsetting the trend set by another trend set in which he has the response variable back and
forth.
We have to do the same to the wife said the wife said is going to be instead of running costs because
they only has one column.
It's going to be simply the White said which is why train
and all that's coming up.
And we're going to take it to the white to the white train in your view this is that we have and that's
what we see in this is because it's a subset that.
Excellent.
So this should be the final step.
And when we have finished our balancing part of this is the next step is feature scale and if you remember
if it your skill it is simply normalizing all the fields numerical fields of course that we have in
our data set and making sure that they are not to be so that they have a lot more weight than they should
on the equation.
Look you see regression.
So that was kind of a mouthful.
But oh it's I mean it's just it's normalacy on the medical fields so that they are pounds.
So this one stands Scheller than what we do is we're going to create a killer cages and call all the
centers that we just imported.
Excellent.
So we run this then we're going to create a new training center wildlife breeding and utrum said you
see in the moment that is going to be the transforming version of the original X-raying and we're going
to use SIFI transform because we want to face first the X-ray.
And once you fit it in one transform any place not one extra step that we're going to do here is going
to make a really are part of the brain.
Excellent.
And I won't explain why I'm doing it anyways.
So we run this actually works.
So we're going to do something similar for test two which is creating a new later set which is a panacea
from all these standard killer apply to the tests.
So it works as well.
Now the reason I made it into a different frame is because the Scheller returns and non-firing multidimensional
number.
And when we do that we lose the index of the rows and we lose the column names and we don't want to
do that.
So we are going to extract those values.
So these new scale data frame is going to have all of the names of course.
So we're going to change the column names of the original and we can set it up on the new columns that
values excellent tissues period and these should work to run this perfectly.
We're going to do the same for tests.
The test is called I'm going to be focused on this and it works just as well.
Then we're going to do the same for index.
So the idea is almost identical except that we're going to replace columns for Enochs
and for a test in x and x
x when so you work as well.
And if we run this great you works fine.
So finally since we have the new train set we're going to replace your vision with this and to it.
And then the same for test is just going to be access to and we run these two.
And what we have done the feature scaling part of this project.
We can look at the variable extreme to see what the final result looks like.
So let's take a look.
So we have these two right here on this chart sorry the has all the numerical codes now bounce
right.
So we're find less with these systems.
Next we're going to actually build the model so that you very much for watching and see in the next
we.